What is Regeneron: 5 things to know about the Westchester-based pharmaceutical company
Christopher J. Eberhart
Mark Lungariello
Rockland/Westchester Journal News






President Donald Trump praised the Westchester-based pharmaceutical company Regeneron for coming up with what he calls a COVID "cure."

In a pinnned Twitter video, Trump referred to the treatment that he received as "Regeneron," although that's the name of the company.

The treatment was a "monoclonal antibody cocktail," dubbed REGN-COV2, which is still in clinical trials, according to the biotech company. It's considered an experimental therapy intended for non-hospitalized COVID patients and is not a vaccine. 

LOHUD: Trump claims that Westchester's Regeneron has COVID 'cure'

So what is Regeneron? Here are five things to know: 

Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Feb. 10, 2020 in Tarrytown. 
Where it's located?
555 Saw Mill River Road (Route 9A), just south of the company's Landmark at Eastview campus at 777 Old Saw Mill River Road. It straddles the Greenburgh-Mount Pleasant border and is considered by property records to be in the Village of Tarrytown. 

How big is the company?
The giant bio-tech company started with four employees in 1988 but grew exponentially since then. In 2016, it unveiled plans to double the size of its research and development center, which was approved in November 2017. Once completed, the expansion will create more than 1 million square feet of new research and development space. 

Adam Schleifer, a Democratic candidate for Congress, delivers remarks during a solidarity rally against racial injustice, sponsored by the Peekskill NAACP, was held at the Peekskill Riverfront Green, May 30, 2020.
Making a (political) run
Adam Schleifer, who's the son of Regeneron's founder and CEO Leonard Schleifer, ran in a Democratic primary for retiring Congresswoman Nita Lowey's congress seat but lost in the primary to Mondaire Jones. Adam attacked Trump several times on the campaign trail.

How rich is Leonard Schleifer?
Leonard Schleifer is worth $2.5 billion, according to Forbes. 

Leonard S. Schleifer, MD, PhD, Founder, President and CEO of Regeneron, delivers remarks during the 38th Annual Volunteer Spirit Awards presented by Regeneron and Volunteer New York, at the Westchester Marriott in Tarrytown, April 20, 2018. 
What else is Regeneron known for?
Other than the coronavirus, Regeneron made several other breakthroughs, including an eczema drug called Dupixent, which the Food and Drug Administration approved in 2017. It's considered by many dermatologists to be the best treatment for moderate to severe eczema. 

Christopher J. Eberhart covers breaking news. Click here for his latest stories. Follow him on Twitter @ChrisEberhart2. Check out how to support local journalism here.
https://www.lohud.com/story/news/coronavirus/2020/10/07/5-things-know-regeneron-company-praised-donald-trump/5918404002/