Study Compared Drug to Laser.
■ Regeneron Pharmaceuticals and Bayer HealthCare AG reported that VEGF Trap-Eye showed positive interim results versus laser in a phase 2 study in patients with diabetic macular edema.

The primary endpoint of the study, a statistically significant improvement in visual acuity over 24 weeks compared to the standard of care in DME — macular laser therapy — was met. Visual acuity improvement was measured by the mean number of letters gained over the initial 24 weeks of the one-year study.

“The magnitude of the gain in visual acuity achieved with VEGF Trap-Eye in this phase 2 study demonstrates the biologic activity of VEGF Trap-Eye in treating diabetic macular edema, a disease in which high levels of vascular endothelial growth factor are present,” said Diana Do, MD, the principal investigator for the study and assistant professor of Ophthalmology at the Wilmer Eye Institute of the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in Baltimore.

Patients in each of the four dosing groups receiving VEGF Trap-Eye achieved statistically significantly greater mean improvements in visual acuity (8.5 to 11.4 letters of vision gained) compared to patients receiving macular laser therapy (2.5 letters gained) at week 24. VEGF Trap-Eye was generally well tolerated, and there were no drug-related serious adverse events.

In this double-masked, prospective, randomized, multicenter phase 2 trial, entitled DA VINCI, 219 patients with clinically significant DME with central macular involvement were randomized to five groups. The control group received macular laser therapy at week one, and patients were eligible for repeat laser treatments, but no more frequently than at 16-week intervals. Two groups received monthly doses of 0.5 or 2.0 mg of VEGF Trap-Eye throughout the six-month dosing period. Two groups received three initial monthly doses of 2.0 mg of VEGF Trap-Eye (at baseline and weeks 4 and 8), followed through week 24 by either every eight-week dosing or as-needed dosing with specific repeat dosing criteria. Patients are continuing on the same dosing regimens for an additional 24 weeks.

Avastin Seen as Equal to Lucentis
But Genentech Takes Issue With Study.
BY JERRY HELZNER, SENIOR EDITOR
