FDA Approves Cholesterol Drug From Regeneron, Sanofi
Praluent is among a powerful new class of cholesterol-lowering medicines

Regeneron hasn’t announced its price for Praluent, but CEO Leonard Schleifer, above, said “we’ve come up with a price that provides value to the health-care system.”
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
By Ron WinslowFollow
July 24, 2015 2:26 pm ET

PRINT

TEXT
30
The first of a powerful new class of cholesterol-lowering medicines won approval from U.S. regulators Friday—a highly anticipated medical advance that nevertheless promises to escalate the growing clamor over drug costs.

The drug, called Praluent and developed by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. REGN 0.68%increase; green up pointing triangle and Sanofi SA, SNY -1.87%decrease; red down pointing triangle provides a new and in some cases desperately needed option for several million high-risk heart patients who can’t get their cholesterol to desirable levels with the blockbuster group of medicines known as statins.

But the companies are pricing the drug at $14,600 a year, an especially high amount for a medicine aimed at a common condition like heart disease. By contrast, statins, which are available in generic versions and remain the mainstay drug option for cholesterol reduction, can be purchased for just a few dollars a month.


The approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration comes amid a crescendo of concern over high drug prices. The $1,000-a-pill price for Gilead Sciences Inc.’s hepatitis C drug Sovaldi triggered outrage from pharmacy-benefit managers and government officials worried about the impact on health programs such as Medicaid. Just this week, more than 100 oncologists joined a growing chorus of doctors lambasting the drug industry for cancer drug prices that can reach $150,000 a year for individual patients.

Some experts say the new cholesterol agents could dwarf those worries. “This could become the most expensive medication that we use,” said Troyen Brennan, executive vice president and chief medical officer at CVS Health Corp., the pharmacy-benefits manager and drugstore chain.

Unlike drugs for cancer or multiple sclerosis, which can have six-figure annual price tags but are taken by relatively few people, these new drugs could go to several million people. Adding the price, plus the expectation that patients could stay on them for 20 to 30 years, Dr. Brennan said, creates a multiplier effect that could lead to a potential $50 billion to $100 billion-a-year national tab.

Other projections are more tempered. Credit Suisse, for instance, in a recent report that assumed a $10,000 price for the drugs, predicted total peak annual sales of Praluent and two expected rivals to eventually reach about $10 billion.

Regeneron and Sanofi defended Praluent’s price. An antibody that patients inject themselves, it will cost substantially less than similarly administered drugs such as Humira and Enbrel for rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune diseases, which are prescribed for thousands of patients and which they said list for more than $38,000 a year.

The toll in the U.S. for cardiovascular disease amounts to more than $300 billion a year, according to estimates, while treating an individual heart attack can range from $60,000 to $120,000, said Leonard Schleifer, Regeneron’s chief executive officer. Expectations—not yet proven—are that the marked cholesterol reductions seen with Praluent will translate into fewer deaths and costly events.

The company believes “we’ve come up with a price that provides value to the health-care system,” Dr. Schleifer said.

After discounts drug makers routinely offer insurers and government payers, the actual price will be lower than the list price. And Praluent likely will soon have competition: A similar drug, Repatha, from Amgen Inc., was approved in Europe early this week, and the FDA’s action date for a decision in the U.S. is Aug. 27. Pfizer Inc. has a candidate that could reach the market by 2017.

“It’s not going to be the big shock to the system that other people are predicting,” said Elias Zerhouni, Sanofi’s research chief.
https://www.wsj.com/articles/fda-approves-cholesterol-drug-from-regeneron-sanofi-1437762374