Vantage Logo July 26, 2012
Event – Zaltrap up for FDA nod in colorectal cancer
author
Joanne Fagg   
Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals’ cancer drug Zaltrap faces its first regulatory decision August 4, and at last the partners may start to see some revenue flow from the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitor. Approval in metastatic colorectal cancer would be a welcome event for the French group, which is hitting the bottom of its patent cliff.

Approval would also help support Regeneron's sky-high valuation by demonstrating that its pipeline can continue to perform after the successful launch of the eye drug Eylea last year. However, the repayment terms from its original 2003 licensing deal mean that the New York group might not see any profit from Zaltrap for several years unless the cancer drug outperforms current forecasts.

Company	Sanofi	Regeneron Pharmaceuticals
Product	Zaltrap
Market cap	$104.3bn	$12.1bn
Product NPV	$358m	$21m
% of market cap	0%	0%
Event type	PDUFA
Date	August 4, 2012
Same molecule, different story

Zaltrap is the cancer-fighting arm of Regeneron’s aflibercept franchise, Eylea being the opthalmological drug. Both combat disease by arresting the growth of blood vessels – Zaltrap prevents growth of vessels feeding tumours and Eylea those that leak in the back of the eye in wet age-related macular degeneration.

While Eylea’s life has been blessed with a comparatively easy clinical and regulatory passage – the company yesterday raised its 2012 sales forecast to $750m – Zaltrap has struggled. It has failed in pancreatic, prostate, ovarian and non-small cell lung cancers, but Regeneron got a win last year in metastatic colorectal cancer, regarded as the least risky of the many indications in which it is being tested (Regeneron, Sanofi finally get an aflibercept cancer win, April 27, 2011).

The partners are hoping for approval in combination with irinotecan-fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy in patients who have previously been treated with a oxaliplatin-containing regimen. The Velour trial found that the addition of Zaltrap to the chemotherapy regimen significantly extended overall and progression-free survival.

Should Zaltrap receive approval next week, sales should reach $368m in 2018, according to EvaluatePharma’s consensus data.

Paying it back

Eylea’s growth is forecast to turn Regeneron from loss to profit this year. However, it does not appear that Zaltrap will contribute meaningfully in the near future. Under the 2003 agreement that partnered aflibercept in phase I for $80m up front and a $45m equity investment, Regeneron is required to pay back half of the development expenses once the collaboration becomes profitable; these expenses totalled $763.4m at the end of 2011.

EvaluatePharma’s forecast shows Regeneron earning co-promotion revenue of $3m beginning in 2015, growing to $16m in 2018, a very modest return given the amount spent on development. Thus work continues in other types of cancer in spite of limited development success – a phase II/III trial is planned in metastatic KRAS-mutated liver cancer – while academics are working in kidney and thyroid cancers, multiple myeloma and melanoma, among other diseases.

However, it seems likely that Zaltrap will not yield a great deal more clinical success; more hope could lie in the extensive antibody partnership with Sanofi – the two have pledged to put 20-30 molecules into the clinic by 2017. So even if Zaltrap does not become the huge money-spinner that Eylea is, if it makes it to the market it should sustain faith in the collaboration.

For now, the Regeneron story is largely about Eylea, and approval of Zaltrap will not change that arithmetic. It should, however, support the idea that Regeneron and Sanofi’s pairing will continue to bear fruit, which will be an important story as Regeneron replaces its red ink with black.

To contact the writer of this story email Jonathan Gardner in London at jonathang@epvantage.com

Analysis
