2 minute readNovember 4, 20218:13 AM EDTLast Updated a year ago
Regeneron beats quarterly sales on COVID-19 drug demand
Reuters
FILE PHOTO: The Regeneron Pharmaceuticals company logo is seen on a building at the company's Westchester campus in Tarrytown
The Regeneron Pharmaceuticals company logo is seen on a building at the company's Westchester campus in Tarrytown, New York, U.S. September 17, 2020. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid
Nov 4 (Reuters) - Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc (REGN.O) on Thursday reported higher-than-expected quarterly revenue on strong demand for its COVID-19 antibody cocktail during the Delta variant-led surge in infections in the United States.

U.S. sales of the cocktail, REGEN-COV, approved for emergency use in non-hospitalized COVID-19 patients, were $676.7 million in the third quarter, compared with analysts' estimates of $320.5 million.

Advertisement · Scroll to continue

Report an ad
ADVERTISING


The company also recorded additional revenue of $127 million from its collaboration with Roche (ROG.S), which sells the cocktail as Ronapreve outside the United States.

article-prompt-devices
Register for free to Reuters and know the full story

A sharp surge in COVID-19 cases led by the Delta variant caused a "tremendous acceleration" in use of the cocktail, Regeneron Chief Executive Officer Leonard Schleifer had said in August.

Regeneron delivered 300,000 doses of the 1.4 million additional doses that were ordered by the U.S. government in September for $2.94 billion. The company will supply the rest by Jan. 31. read more

Latest Updates
Chinese cities ease curbs, full zero-COVID exit seen some way off
Amgen says experimental obesity drug has promising durability
United States to end mpox emergency declaration
Protests in Malta as parliament debates abortion amendment
China's Xi told EU less lethal Omicron opens way for fewer COVID restrictions
Sales of eczema drug Dupixent, which are recorded by Sanofi (SASY.PA), rose 55% to $1.66 billion for the quarter.

Eylea, the company's macular degeneration treatment, reported a 12% rise in sales to $1.47 billion.

Third-quarter revenue jumped 51% to $3.45 billion, while analysts had expected $2.82 billion, according to Refinitiv IBES data.

On an adjusted basis, the company earned $15.37 per share.

Regeneron's shares were up 2.7% before the bell, set to add to the 35% gains recorded so far this year.
https://www.reuters.com/business/healthcare-pharmaceuticals/regeneron-quarterly-profit-nearly-doubles-strong-demand-eczema-drug-2021-11-04/