Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Could Be Ready to Rebound
Regeneron has faced a lower stock price and patent wrangling. But the stock could be ready to rise again.
CHRIS LAUDANIJAN 20, 2017 8:19 AM EST
In the latest one-year period, shares of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals (REGN) - Get Free Report are down more than 21%. Around this time last year, Regeneron shares fell sharply and have been locked in a trading range.

Last week, Regeneron President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Leonard Schleifer presented before investors at the 35th Annual J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference. Regeneron has four FDA-approved products. Its main product, Eylea, is now approved for five indications, and it  has an estimated 60% share of the wet age-related macular degeneration, or AMD, market.

The company's other product, Praluent, is used to treat hypercholesterolemia and has had mixed results. Because of the high cost of Praluent -- $14,600 per year -- insurance companies have been reluctant to pay for the drug and, as a result, that has limited sales. Praluent will likely post sales of just $100 million this year.

Earlier this month, a federal judge ruled Praluent infringed on Amgen's (AMGN) - Get Free Report Repatha patent and barred its sale in the United States. The decision to bar the sale is to be in full effect within 30 days of the ruling. Regeneron and its partner Sanofi (SNY) - Get Free Report rushed into court to appeal the decision. The district court denied the company's request for a stay but extended the 30-day stay to 45 days. Regeneron will appeal through the Federal Circuit Court. It remains to be seen if the company can continue to market the treatment during the appeals process.


At the conference, Regeneron announced preliminary sales of Eylea. Full-year U.S. Eylea net sales were $3.32 billion. For the fourth quarter, the treatment generated $858 million in U.S. sales. Both figures were slightly less than expected. Bayer Pharmaceutical (BAYRY) - Get Free Report commercializes Eylea sales outside the United States.

SPECIAL REPORT: Download TheStreet's 25 Rules for Investing Whitepaper and become a smarter investor.

The company is planning to launch Sarilumab, its treatment for rheumatoid arthritis later this year. Sarilumab could be on the market by summer.

Dupixent for atopic dermatitis could launch later this year. The company estimates about 300,000 patients in the United States are in immediate need of Dupixent. The FDA is expected to make a decision before March 29. Should both treatments launch this year, Sarilumab and Dupixent could produce sales between $50 million and $80 million each.

In addition, Regeneron has several drug trials that are expected to publish results. Dupilumab for asthma is expected to post phase III results sometime in the fourth quarter.


Fasinumab for chronic pain and osteoarthritis could report phase III results late this year as well. The company estimates 116 million Americans suffer from chronic pain. Fasinumab could address the market since it's a nonopioid pain therapy, and since NSAIDS are associated with serious cardiovascular and gastrointestinal side effects. Opioids have limited efficacy in osteoarthritis and are associated with serious issues with chronic tolerability and abuse potential.

The company will announce full fourth-quarter and fiscal 2016 results on Feb. 9. Analysts are expecting fourth-quarter earnings of $3.09 per share on total sales of $1.30 billion. For the full year, the consensus is forecasting sales of $4.94 billion, up 20.3%, and earnings of $11.64 per share.

Right now, analysts anticipate fiscal 2017 sales of $5.75 billion, up 16.4%, and earnings of $14.13 per share. Based on the company's above-average growth prospects, I don't think it's unreasonable to assume the shares should trade somewhere between 30 and 32 times forward estimates, or for $432 to $452 per share within a year.

A favorable court ruling or a royalty deal between Regeneron and Amgen or positive phase III data should get the stock out of its trading range and moving higher.


This article is commentary by an independent contributor. At the time of publication, the author held no positions in the stocks mentioned.

Chris Laudani
BY CHRIS LAUDANI
Exclusive Investor Content

https://www.thestreet.com/investing/stocks/regeneron-pharmaceuticals-could-be-ready-to-rebound-13960200