Can Regeneron Squeeze Another Use Out Of Blockbuster Hopeful Dupixent?
FacebookTwitterLinkedInShare Licensing
ALLISON GATLIN04:24 PM ET 10/16/2018
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals (REGN) jumped Tuesday after its blockbuster hopeful Dupixent showed promise in treating nasal polyps.

X
On the stock market today, Regeneron stock popped 5.6%, to 398.52. Regeneron stock is forming a flat base with a buy point at 416.59. Shares of biotech companies as a group spiked around 4%, reversing from a double-digit pullback this month.

The study pitted Dupixent against a placebo in treating nasal polyps in patients suffering chronic sinus infections. This could be the third use for Dupixent, Leerink analyst Geoffrey Porges said. It had Food and Drug Administration approval as an eczema treatment and is under consideration as an asthma drug.

But Porges noted Dupixent faces adoption hurdles in treating nasal polyps. Dupixent costs about $36,000 a year and is a biweekly injection. Nasal polyps generally are treated with corticosteroids or nasal surgery.

IBD Newsletters
Get exclusive IBD analysis and actionable news daily.
SIGN UP NOW!
"To the extent some of these patients are identified and in the care of allergists already, they may be more accessible for Dupixent, but surgeons are likely to be slower converters to injectable treatment," Porges said in a note to clients.

Two Late-Stage Tests Show Promise
Regeneron and partner Sanofi (SNY) tested Dupixent for nasal polyps in two Phase 3 studies. At 24 weeks, patients treated with Dupixent experienced a 51% and 57% improvement in their nasal congestion/obstruction severity compared, respectively, with 15% and 19% placebo improvements.

Dupixent-treated patients had a 27% and 33% reduction in their nasal polyps compared with a 4% and 7% increase for patients who received the placebo. Dupixent also cut the need for corticosteroids or surgery, and improved sinus infection symptoms and sense of smell.

The drug targets underlying inflammatory and allergic conditions of several diseases, said Regeneron Chief Scientific Officer George Yancopoulos. Regeneron also is looking at Dupixent in treating peanut and grass allergies, as well as a condition affecting the esophagus.

"With these data, Dupixent has now been shown to address this inflammation across the complete airway, which manifests in the upper respiratory tract as polyps and congestion, and in the lower airway as asthma," he said.

Dupixent Sales Expectations
Porges forecasts Dupixent sales of $921 million in 2018 growing to $4.7 billion in 2022. That doesn't include his expectations for revenue from Dupixent in treating nasal polyps. The consensus models $904 million in 2018 and $4.1 billion in 2022 in total Dupixent sales.

RBC Capital Markets analyst Kennen MacKay models peak sales of about $100 million for Dupixent in treating nasal polyps. This would make it the smallest potential use for Dupixent behind $2.4 billion for eczema and $1.2 billion for asthma, he said in a note to clients.

"The nasal polyps market is there, but we see this as a challenging commercial setting," he said. Nasal polyps treatment "represents a potential large market (but) we anticipate significant payer push back/access impediments given generic steroidal standard of care."
https://www.investors.com/news/technology/regeneron-stock-dupixent-nasal-polyps-treatment/