Regeneron Eye Drug Beats Rivals While Amgen Sues

FacebookTwitterLinkedInShare Licensing
AMY REEVES11:27 AM ET 10/17/2014
Biotech Regeneron Pharmaceuticals got good news and bad news Friday morning as its drug Eylea outperformed the competition in a clinical trial, but it also got sued for patent infringement by Amgen over its cholesterol drug.


Investors focused on the positive, as Regeneron Pharmaceuticals (REGN) stock was up 9% in morning trading on the stock market today, above 372. Earlier, Regeneron stock touched an all-time high of 375.90.


The trial made a head-to-head comparison between Eylea and Roche's popular drugs Avastin and Lucentis in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME), a form of vision loss induced by diabetes. After 52 weeks, patients on Eylea showed significantly more improvement in eyesight, the company reported.


"The outcome is better than expected because in addition to better efficacy, Eylea also showed better safety, especially compared to Lucentis for (arterial thromboembolic events) and cardiovascular events," wrote RBC Capital Markets analyst Adnan Butt in a research note Friday. "(The) data has been something that gets brought up as a modest overhang for Eylea's potential and REGN shares, and today's results are likely to show that if anything they help Eylea's launch in DME, with the potential to be even more impactful if differences persist at two years."



Amgen (AMGN), meanwhile, sued in federal court to stop Regeneron and its marketing partner Sanofi (SNY) from making and selling alirocumab, their cholesterol drug, which is expected to be approved in the U.S. by the second half of next year. Amgen claimed that they infringed on its two patents that "describe and claim monoclonal antibodies to proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 ('PCSK9')."


Amgen's own anti-PCSK9 drug evolocumab is awaiting FDA approval and is also expected to launch next year.


Butt wrote that he was surprised but not overly concerned by the lawsuit, as he expects it to end in a settlement rather than an actual prevention of alirocumab's launch. Regeneron and Roche settled a similar dispute over Eylea, he noted.


Investors in Sanofi also seemed unfazed, as Sanofi stock was up 2% in morning trading. Analysts are expecting peak annual sales between $1 billion and $2 billion for both drugs.


Follow Amy Reeves on Twitter: @IBD_Areeves.
https://www.investors.com/news/technology/regn-stock-rises-as-eylea-beats-avastin-lucentis/