Regeneron Is A Phenomenal Growth Story; Buying The Current Dip Could Be A Wise Move
Mar. 15, 2020 11:53 PM ETRegeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (REGN)19 Comments
Summary
The phenomenal success of wet AMD and retinopathy treatment Eylea ($7.5 billion sales in 2019) has underpinned Regeneron's strong revenue growth in recent years.
In less than a decade, Regeneron has grown from a minor biotech with a single commercialised drug to a potential pharma powerhouse.
Collaboration with Sanofi around asthma drug Dupixent looks promising - Sanofi's CEO has claimed $10 billion in annual sales achievable (Regeneron earns 50% of all sales in US -.$1.8 billion in 2019).
Regeneron's bottom line earnings are affected somewhat by high costs of development, but short term and long term the company looks a buy to me.
Market turmoil is making investing tricky at present, and Regeneron stock is suffering; but pre-COVID19 it was close to breaking $500 - a reasonable fair value price for the stock.
Investment Thesis
Before COVID-19 sent the stock market into meltdown, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals (NASDAQ:REGN) stock had enjoyed a strong start to the year, rising 47% from $336 in late January to $478 by the beginning of March.

The gains were driven by a strong set of Q4 and FY19 results, mainly due to the continuing growth in sales of the company's blockbuster drug Eylea - a vascular endothelial growth factor ("VEGF") inhibitor indicated for the treatment of numerous diseases of the eye, including wet age-related macular degeneration ("AMD"), and diabetic retinopathy.

In 2019, Regeneron earned $4.6 billion from sales of Eylea within the US, where the company holds the exclusive rights to the development and commercialisation of the drug, plus another $1.1 billion thanks to a revenue sharing agreement with Bayer (OTCPK:BAYZF), which holds the rights to market and sell Eylea in all countries outside the US except Japan - where Regeneron earns a ~35% share of all net sales.

Eylea sales were responsible for 74% of Regeneron's total revenues earned in 2019. The drug keeps delivering for the company, growing US revenues by 10% and 14% in 2018 and 2019 respectively. Eylea commands a huge share of a growing market, and despite the best efforts of rival drug developers, is currently showing no signs of a slowdown of sales.

Regeneron stock received a further boost in February when Novartis (NVS) was forced to launch a safety review of its latest Eylea rival, Beovu. The FDA approved Beovu in October last year. Novartis saw the drug as a long-term replacement for its current $2 billion (in the US)-selling AMD treatment Lucentis, another wet AMD targeted drug which also earned collaboration partner Roche (OTCQX:RHHBY) $1.7 billion in overseas sales in 2019.

Under ordinary market conditions, Regeneron stock may have climbed above $500 on this news which virtually guarantees Eylea another year of strong sales. The share price may even have challenged its 2016 highs of ~$580, but instead, coronavirus fears have driven the stock down below $450.
https://seekingalpha.com/article/4332101-regeneron-is-phenomenal-growth-story-buying-current-dip-be-wise-move





















































