The Logic Of Biologics - Is Regeneron The Next Genentech?
Simon KingFormer Contributor
May 21, 2013,01:14pm EDT
This article is more than 9 years old.
When the US biotech company Regeneron Pharmaceuticals recently announced its first-quarter results, few were surprised that the company's flagship wet age-related macular degeneration (AMD) product Eylea had once again exceeded consensus expectations. With three-monthly sales of $314 million, management reiterated that full-year revenues for 2013 are expected to hit $1.3 billion.

Furthermore, note analysts, this figure is on the conservative side – a view that has been shaped by an exceptional performance for the product since it was first launched in late 2011. Indeed, having generated sales of $838 million during 2012, Eylea is one of the most successful new drug launches of all time. With revenues having expanded at a faster rate than expected, the company's share price has also grown rapidly – by 376 percent over the past two years.

A number of important conclusions can be drawn from the Eylea success story. Given how the remit of payers and regulators has developed in recent years, perhaps the most pertinent of these is the value story that Regeneron has successfully narrated for Eylea. This has been critical in ensuring that the product has gained rapid market share, not only at the expense of Roche's gold-standard treatment Lucentis, but also at the expense of off-label Avastin – used prominently in the US market at a significantly cheaper cost.

Furthermore, the success of Eylea provides a timely reminder of the commercial value of biologics; Regeneron's product has not only rapidly assumed blockbuster status, but lack of a defined entry point for traditional generic competition should notably enhance the lifecycle of the franchise.

Key to increasing the probability of this occurring will be Regeneron's efforts to combine Eylea with other biologic products, thus mirroring the strategy that Roche has recently implemented with its HER2 breast cancer franchise (where the launches of Kadcyla and Perjeta will support – and ultimately supersede – Herceptin usage). A few weeks ago, Regeneron confirmed that it would acquire full rights for two preclinical monoclonal antibodies (MAb) developed under its partnership with Sanofi – a move described as strategically very important for the Eylea franchise by a number of analysts.

The parallels with Roche – or more accurately the company's Genentech division – are further enhanced when Regeneron's MAb-dominated pipeline is taken into account, albeit it if the company's late- to mid-stage pipeline is focused on the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, LDL cholesterol reduction and asthma, rather than oncology.

Positive early-stage data for Regeneron and Sanofi's asthma therapy dupilumab, which was presented on Tuesday, will incrementally drive sentiment towards a growth story beyond Eylea – as will another product being co-developed by the two companies – the PCSK9 inhibitor REGN727, a  potential blockbuster, this time in the cholesterol market.

Indeed, the Sanofi partnership provides further parallels with Genentech. From an operational perspective Regeneron is able to gain significant leverage from Sanofi in terms of discovery and development costs, note analysts at UBS . The deal – write analysts at Credit Suisse – provides Regeneron with financial resources and clinical bandwidth to advance multiple products into broad Phase I and Phase II programmes prior to making Phase III go/no-go decisions. Sanofi provides the cash while Regeneron provides the innovation – sound familiar? - and perhaps shows why Regeneron chief scientific officer  George Yancopoulos was the most highly compensated pharma executive in the world last year with a total pay package of $81.6 million.

As analysts at Credit Suisse also note, there is a scarcity  of pure play antibody companies, and Regeneron is now the largest biotech player focused almost exclusivity in this field. The rarity of this stems from a long history of consolidation, but also confers on Regeneron a higher probability of clinical success.

Research undertaken by analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein last year clearly demonstrates that this is the case. According to their findings:

For preclinical compounds, it takes an average of 44 small-molecule candidates to achieve one final approval versus nine biologic drug candidates
In Phase II development, it takes an average of 11 small-molecule candidates to achieve one final approval versus four biologic drug candidates
Only 19 percent of small-molecule compounds will advance from Phase II to Phase III studies, versus 44 percent for biologics
Only 60 percent of small-molecule compounds will successfully complete Phase III studies versus 79 percent for biologics
A higher chance of clinical success and greater insulation from generic entrants – both enviable characteristics in the modern pharmaceutical industry.

https://www.forbes.com/sites/simonking/2013/05/21/the-logic-of-biologics-is-regeneron-the-next-roche/?sh=33866791ea0b